Dear student,

As your assignment 4, you are expected to answer the questions provided. Please review the material
to understand the terms, and then come here to provide a summary of your understanding in your own
words. Avoid copying and pasting work from the internet, using AI or fellow students. If that
happens, you will be awarded a zero for this assignment. You need to give your answers here in the
discussion form. You are also allowed to comment, add to fellow students' responses.

    1. What is your understanding of social and ethical issues that came with the introduction of
       computers? Use real life examples and scenarios.
    2. If you have a square room with a computer in each corner, which topology is more reliable.
       Please justify your answer.
    3. Use examples to differentiate between operating system and operation program.



1. There are many social and ethical issues that have come about since the introduction of
computers, below is a list of examples of some of them:
	Security
		Security is definitely one of the biggest issues that has arisen since the introduction
		of computers. Security is such a broad concept it must be divided into multiple 
	Data privacy
		- Data is being collected continuously with every website and application used.
		  ties into cyber security.
		As we spend more time online and share more of our lives with people over the internet
	finacial Security
		- ebanking and e-commerce services.
	cyber securtiy
		- With more and more day-to-day services moving to online. Security becomes a major
		  concern. Especially when it comes to e-commerce and banking online.
	Growing technological gap
		- The price of electronic components and smart devices means not everyone can afford
		  connecting to the internet or to tools which others have access to creating an even
		  broader technological divide.
		  This is particularly previlent in the developing countries where basic necesities aren't
		  even being met.
	Cyber bullying
		- Cyber bullying is a relatively new form of bullying that goes beyond the school walls and
		  kids can now be bullied online wherever they are. The bullies also have the anonymity of
		  the internet to hide behind. A lot of bullying has been brought on with the advent of
		  social media networks.
	Hyper reliance on technology
		- 
	Environmental Impact
		- Increased electricity useage
		- E-waste

2.
	A mesh network is the most reliable network topology, but also the most costly to implement.
	Only having 4 devices on the network means that creating a mesh network is not completely
	unfeesable and will create the most reliable network. In a mesh network if a link between two
	nodes fails the neighbours of the failed node will recalculate the network and paths.
	The network essentially becomes self healing and it requires multiple link fails to bring the
	network down.

3.
	The oprating system is the base software that runs everything. It interfaces to the hardware,
	it runs the file system, it interfaces to the user. The operating system executes at a
	privileged security level called the kernel level.
	Examples of operating systems are MacOS, Linux and Windows.
	Operating programs are programs that run in the user space of the operating system. They are
	generally used to perform a specific task for the user.
	Examples of operating programs are Word, Notepad and photoshop.